well it's about a week before my
traditional Good Friday planting date
however I'm long put some Tomatoes out
in the garden in fact I wish I'd put the
tomatoes out a couple weeks ago so my
schedule like your risk is very busy so
de planta my tomatoes what I'm first
going to do is dig a nice deep hole and
to do this my actually use post hole
diggers and dig down and bring out the
soul and then i'm going to put pit in
that hole and we'll start with some
composite cow manure after that i'm
going to add a balanced organic
fertilizer a 533 and after that and
we'll add something you may not use too
often your garden bone middle ball mill
is really high in phosphorus so it's
actually a 115 04 lesser value so when
you hear those numbers the three numbers
represents a percentage of nitrogen
phosphorus and potassium or potash well
phosphorus and potassium were very good
for encouraging root growth as well stem
growth and nitrogen to typically
encourages leaf growth well a plant
needs all three of these but you have to
be a little careful not to overdo it on
the nitrogen for a fruiting vegetable
peppers are specialists susceptible to
this if you give it too much nitrogen
you have this beautiful big bushy pepper
plant we know peppers on it after the
bone mill I'm going to then add a little
kelp kelp is very high in trace elements
and then we're going to cover the rest
up with soly and give it a little
protection since we were still planning
a little early so let's get started
now planning my traditional better boy
tomato and you see sometimes when you
get the plants you actually have more
than one plant going up growing in the
pot and you're a lot of times you're
tempted to try to plant all of these but
really it's not worth it you're going to
get damaged the other one so I'll just
pluck it out and leave the good one now
since I'm burying this pretty deep I'm
going to actually go ahead and pull up
all these lower leaves on leaving the
cop top few leads I'm going to rake in
some dirt with this the amendments i
just added mix it in good
and then I'm going to put the plan look
how deep that plant is in there looks
pretty deep in an effort to date but
however i'm leaving a little hole that
will catch water mendes love water
especially when the first planet i
mentioned the protection i'm adding this
is simply a milk jug which i've cut the
bottom off and you can see it's perfect
in that hole right there with the whole
of chiefs it keeps the wind from blowing
them all then i took a little dirt
around this now is the tomato plant
grows unless you removed in look the
note jug puts all even around that part
of the stem and then tomato play on
continue to grow one important thing is
don't forget to water them in after you
plant it and even though i have a
plastic milk jug on them on the water on
top of that knowing that since they're
in a hole the water is one to find the
roots
well here we are at the farm and we've
already planted that tomato plants as
you can see behind me here at the farm
we planted about 37 tomato plants and
about that many peppers as well given
both of them protection both being heat
loving plants we gave them the
protection of the milk jugs as well good
thing too it's a bit nippy out here
Georgia it's probably mid to high 50s
which for Georgia is freezing now I
realize some people so my viewers up
north may disagree with that but
needless to say the plants being heat
lovers as it are appreciate the extra
protection so for the demand of plants
we've got predominantly better boys
bystanders but we do have some pork
swappers mixed in there as well as some
champions which I've never grown before
so I'm trying those out this year the
pepper are predominantly California
wonder which is by staple bell pepper as
well as some jalapeno stone and in
addition to the peppers and the tomatoes
that just went out we'd previously
planted some garlic and onions as well
as some potatoes we have three types of
potatoes we're growing we have Kennebec
we have a a red pontiac I believe red
Pontiac and as well as Yukon Gold I
actual a little worried about the
Kennebec we'll plan those pretty early
it was pretty weird i'm not sure those
won't come up so we'll have to keep an
eye on those to see how those do